As I just joked, we're gonna take
the more perilous ones to live code.
We'll do it at the end, yeah.
Go out with a bang.
So this is one of the newest
APIs in React 18.
And if suspense is one where
it's either background fetching,
getting rid of a loaded route,
and stuff along those lines,
is a great way to build
a strategy around it.
This one is definitely if you need it,
right?
It's not like I would not, but there's
a powerful concept that solves a bunch
of issues which is, so
I have got this large list.
It's got 10,000 items,
it's filtering and sorting them.
It might be intentionally slowed down
a little bit because this is a very fancy
MacBook.
If you throw out your computer,
you get it nice and painful, right?
It's big, and sometimes it is.
There's an example on
the use of the doctors.
It's one of those things that
does a whole network graph and
shows you all the related nodes and
charts out an entire thing.
There are tons of times where there is
something that it is computationally
expensive, right?
Sometimes, it's like, all right,
let's whip it out to a web worker and
stuff like that, but that comes with
its own sets of problems, right?
There's some things that you
can't necessarily do, right?
There's some times what your
infrastructure will constrain
you on, right?
There are lots of different
trade-offs that you have to make.
And one of the problems
earlier in React 17 and
before is that when you triggered
a render, it was synchronous.
It's still synchronous,
but it would trigger and
it would go through and if it was
blocking, we had a problem, right?
And one of the things that the concurrency
model in modern React and React 18 and
later brings is at least this idea, and
I kind of mentioned this in the beginning,
of, well, if everything's urgent,
then nothing is.
And if nothing's urgent,
then everything is, right?
And so really one of the most core
things that it brings is this idea.
It's not that you can say
that this is urgent, but
you can say that something
else is not urgent, right?
There was a really great question
at the beginning of like,
should we debounce inputs all the time,
right?
And it's like,
there's nuance to that question, right?
There's a lot of stuff like,
should you debounce the network
calls that an input makes?
Yes, right, especially if
they're typing a lot in a field,
you don't wanna slam the server.
You might get four twenty nined, right?
There's lots of reasons
why you could do that.
If you're gonna fill a large
list of 10,000 things,
you might choose to debounce it, right?
But with a lot of the ways that our
hooks are working of like, yeah,
this triggers this thing and then effect
goes off and stuff along those lines.
That can get a little bit gnarly as well.
And the idea that React itself,
once it starts,
doesn't really have a great
way to handle things.
And this is part of the reason why
the concurrency model in React 18 exists,
right?
And it's this idea to say,
non-urgent things can and
should be either paused, stopped, thrown
away if a new urgent thing comes in.
And so that we can prioritize that not
all user actions and not all events and
not all state changes are created equal,
right?
And then we can say, these things
are important but less important.
So if I go back to this example over here,
this is literally because
we had that great question.
We talked about this a little
bit in the beginning.
It makes my job easier now.
Showing the user feedback
that they typed in the box,
critical, right, it is.
I built the app to be intentionally slow
and needed it to be slow to make a point,
and still got annoyed when it was slow,
right?
Yeah, but I typed a thing,
and it wasn't showing up is both what
I wanted and frustrating, right?
It's like that old thing, which is bad
Internet is worse than no Internet.
Unreliable Wi-Fi is worse than
just not having the Internet.
Not having the internet,
you go read a book, right?
Having spotty Wi-Fi,
you will get very angry.
And we're very used to sometimes,
especially if it has a network request,
seeing a loading indicator.
Yeah, we want that to be as
fast as possible, obviously.
But when I typed a letter,
it not showing up on the screen and
getting that little happy beach
ball that macOS still has, right,
and stuff like that, is not great.
Or locking up the main thread completely,
it isn't great.
So this idea that there is now
kind of the primitives and
the infrastructure within React to say,
yo,
showing the actual updated list,
especially if they're still typing.
It's not important to show
them the thing they asked for.
It's saying,
actually catching the characters and
getting them there is
probably more important.
And kind of building on some of the
primitives to cancel stuff, so on and so
forth, right?
This stuff has existed.
We did a course on RxJS a while back.
And in observables,
there is this concept of cancellation and
doing all sorts of things.
And just ignore that,
we moved on to this new version.
They typed a letter again, abandon that
stream, shift over to the next one.
These ideas exist.
They just weren't fundamentally in
the 2013 version of React, right?
It's one thing to then do them fresh, but
then also how do you migrate and keep?
How do you not rewrite React in the
process or at least on a fundamentally,
on API level and end up with a new
framework, so on and so forth, right?
And so we have a lot of us now in React
18, and we'll show it in this example.
And it's definitely like,
should you immediately go and
find a thing that you should
do it in your app tomorrow?
No, you should not.
Some point, there will be a problem.
Everyone's debating about a whole
bunch of terrible solutions and
you will be like, [LAUGH] right?
You will be the hero of the day.